guys it's christmas.
It's Christmas.
Again
i feel like we just had it though, don't you?
but i love it.
It's my favorite time of year.
there really is i think ah i i love everything about it to be honest with you i i like um.
I like the songs
I like
ah i like the snow we didn't get that this year and i know most of you are really happy about that but i could use some snow i was born and raised in alaska i do like snow for christmas.
Christmas, but that's okay.
But, um,
I even like some of the some of the things like uh i like Santa Claus i like
I like Frosty.
I like those iconic symbols of the season i really do
I do think, however,
and this may sound a little cliche but I do think that
That somewhere along the line,
we have kinda lost
the true meaning of Christmas and we hear this every year
and hopefully what i'm about to say resonates with you even if you've heard it before please don't shut your ears off i think it's important.
I think, and I'm not, to be honest with you, I'm not talking about simply
the commercialism of the season that seems to bombard us earlier and earlier every year you know i mean it was before halloween this year that i saw christmas stuff in the store.
The stores.
it's crazy.
Crazy.
But it's not just that. That's not what I'm talking about. I mean, even for some of us,
who know why we celebrate christmas.
I think maybe we don't
Always give it the credit that it's due.
Sometimes I think that we add Jesus to our mix of Christmas fare.
and Jesus ends up becoming just another iconic symbol of the season.
but he's so much more than that.
And he's worth much more attention than that.
Alone.
Um,
i think a lot of times this is really bothering me.
Sorry.
That's going to bother me all night if I keep looking at that.
Um,
So,
I think that sometimes
we look at jesus and this birth of this baby and this manger.
As
As the beginning.
i've heard it before i've heard.
Oh, Jesus started from humble beginnings.
where Jesus started from
such glorious beginnings depending on how you want to look at that.
but what i want you to know tonight.
Is that Christmas?
Is not the beginning of the story.
Does anybody know that? Christmas is not the beginning of the story.
we like to think of it sometimes as the beginning but it is not the beginning and it's not the end.
Christmas actually is a point in time
Somewhere in the middle of the most important story
That you could ever
Ever hear?
And we are illuminated
To that place of the story
we're illuminated to that.
in John 1.
The apostle John in his
in his gospel
Account
Begins differently than any other gospel in the bible
He doesn't talk about Jesus in the manger.
He doesn't talk about the events surrounding his birth, and that's what we're used to hearing around this time of year. He talks about something totally different. He tells you exactly who Jesus is.
Jesus.
Is?
and it's amazing.
He starts out in verse 1 he says in the beginning was the word
And the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
He was with God,
In the beginning
Through him all things were made, without him nothing was made that has been made.
So John doesn't even say that we're Jesus. So the people who are listening to this, he's not giving it up. He's actually keeping that for the end. I'm going to give you a little spoiler alert. The word is Jesus.
Word is Jesus, because we don't have time. We only have three or four hours, like I said, so we're going to have to get this going, right?
but the word is jesus okay but to them the people that were listening or reading rather what john was had written.
to them.
The word was very important. He, he chose his words wisely.
As the case may be.
You see, he had two
two audiences he had greeks and he had jews.
To the Jews, the word, the whole concept of the word,
was ah basically was god himself. they think that god.
Can be completely and perfectly represented in his word.
that's kind of like what i think too.
i think you can take god's word to the bank.
um.
So when John said, then the beginning was the word.
they knew exactly what he was talking about.
now the greeks had a little bit different idea of this um similar though but a little bit different to them the word or the greek word for that is logos and that's actually what the
But the...
I want the word is word here.
Word.
is uh is logos.
Okay, and so to Greeks,
Logos or the word
was ultimate and supreme reason.
They actually took that even further into thinking that the word
Is the ordering factor
In the world, the one that created reason and order.
That's what the Greeks thought of as word. And so when John said,
I'm going to introduce you to this person.
And he's called the word.
Jews I know
What you think of the word? Greeks, I know what you think of the word.
But let me tell you something, I know the word.
and i'm gonna tell you who he is.
So he illuminates us to the origins
Of the word he says in the beginning was the word does that sound familiar to you in the beginning
Anybody ever read a Bible?
Anybody yeah hopefully lots of hands just went up yes
I love it.
Look at genesis 1:1.
what does genesis 1:1 say?
In the beginning
In the beginning.
God created the heavens and the earth.
So here, John very purposely says, "In the beginning..."
Was the word
and the word was with God and the word was God
Remember, he's talking about Jesus here. Understand this, guys. Jesus is eternal.
Christmas is not the beginning of the story because Jesus is the beginning.
Now listen to this. He says, through him all things were made.
Without him nothing was made that has been made.
So he's eternal.
we see that he is god remember in verse two it says he was with god in the beginning the word was with god and the word was god.
So Jesus is eternal. Jesus is God. Jesus is creator.
Everything you see around you, Jesus created.
He did good.
He does good.
He's the creator of life.
He's the creator of light
We see that in the next verse in him was life and that life was the light of
Of all mankind.
Oh, I love that.
In him was life
And that life was the light of all mankind. So Jesus
is eternal
Jesus is God
Jesus' creator
And Jesus is a giver.
Hmm.
Jesus is a giver. Jesus gives life to us.
And light.
Isn't that amazing?
This is the, this is the, think about this guys.
This is.
This is God. This is the creator of the universe.
this is the god i like to say ah and not that i i stole this from somebody actually but ah if you if you apologize to him for me if you ever see him but ah ah.
This is the God who said, "Let there be light," and the sun came out of his mouth.
This is
Jesus sleeping in a manger?
This is God, and He wants to give us life and light.
It says that light shines in the darkness, in the darkness of the world.
Has not,
Overcome it
Why is it if Jesus wants to give life and light?
Why do we reject it?
Who would reject that?
Who would want to reject that?
Because doesn't it stand to reason?
that if light and lighter in Jesus, then without Jesus is...
Death and darkness,
because you see every if jesus creates life and light and that means that anything in the earth anything in the world that you see that resembles life that resembles light.
It has its origins in Christ. Right?
and without him is death and darkness.
You know, death and darkness is funny to me because,
Um, um,
So pretty much that's the one thing, or two things rather, that
that
Mankind seems to be pre-programmed
to be afraid of.
Death and darkness.
Yeah, maybe there's some.
That are a little more cavalier than that, that don't fear death and darkness.
Um,
and maybe as you get older you you become more desensitized to it.
But as a.
As a base fear
That's generally the first, death and darkness.
And,
Jesus dispels that death and darkness.
If you look further on,
In John chapter nine.
It says that this is true light.
That gives light to everyone and it was coming into the world.
He was in the world, and though the world was made through him,
The world did not recognize him.
He came to that which was his own.
But his own did not receive him.
Hmm
His own did not receive him. So the truth of the matter is,
is that Jesus is not
received
All the time.
His own did not receive him.
If you look back at the Greek scholars and what they think about that particular
uh passage right there
They say the really true sense of that is that Jesus
Came home.
Okay.
He says, Jesus came.
to his own. Jesus came home.
And was rejected in his own home.
He was rejected.
So why would we do that? Why would a person reject the light and life that Jesus brings? I'll tell you why. It actually tells you why right here.
It says that the world did not recognize him.
They didn't recognize the light and the life.
And why do you think that is?
I think it's because they didn't recognize the death and the darkness.
That had consumed them.
you know,
Sin is pleasurable for a season, right?
It's pleasurable for a time
And maybe sometimes even seems like light and life for a while. But the word tells us that sin leads to death and darkness.
But Jesus has come to dispel that.
There's good news, though.
Verse 12 tells us, yet to all who did receive him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Think about that.
For a moment.
I'll say it again. Yet to all who did receive him, he said,
To those who believed in his name,
He gave the right
to become children of God.
Children born not of natural descent nor of human decision
Or a husband's will.
But born.
Of god.
So,
You have a choice.
There's a choice to make.
You can receive Jesus.
you can reject Jesus
It's a choice that is given to us.
For those that will receive Jesus
He has given us the right to become children of God.
that's an amazing thing and look at this
children born not of natural descent nor of human decision or of a husband's will but born of God. see this is a work of God in our lives. God doesn't call us to some self-sacrifice.
100% self-help gospel
He doesn't call us to, uh,
She's my words wisely he doesn't call us to uh to to be a better you
he doesn't call you to to have this.
fixed up face, this fixed up exterior to have this physical prosperity, this physical wealth that may not be what he calls you to.
He calls you to be born of him. It's a reprogramming.
reprogramming. you know i like the fact that john used the word the word here and then reached two separate huge groups of people by taking something.
something that was culturally understandable to them and using it to spread the gospel. I think God is so like that, don't you?
i think that that that he that he sees that and and says hey you know um you you computer programmer.
Jesus
To you computer programmer
He is the ultimate reprogrammer of your hard drive.
You know, I think he does that. I think he relates to you any place you are.
any place you are there's no place that you can be that god can't relate to you and that jesus doesn't fit.
Because God wants to transform us. He wants to reprogram our minds, right?
And he can do that if you receive if you receive Jesus
So then here we come.
We'll make this short.
Here we come.
This is it.
You guys ready?
This is the one
The moment this is the moment this is the moment of christmas right here
Verse 14, we just read it.
The word, the word.
became flesh
And made his dwelling among us.
We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only son.
Who came from the Father...
full of grace and truth and there is
That precious moment in the middle of the story
That precious moment where Jesus
Added humanity.
To his deity,
And became one of us,
To live a sinless life because we can't
I don't know, maybe one of you
Can somebody is somebody sinless
No.
You're not.
Neither am I.
But Jesus was
He lived that sinless life and then he paid the ultimate price for our sins on the cross
He died for us.
so that if we receive him we can have eternal life. Jesus is eternal.
He didn't die so we could have this fantastic
thing with lots of friends going on here and and this over here and be mr popular and mrs popular.
he died for eternal life something so much more important.
That's what he died for. he became.
He became human.
He humbled himself. I mean, if you were God of the universe,
You think that she would maybe do the same thing?
I'm not so sure I would.
But I think God that Jesus did.
Amen.
you know as we go through this season.
i want you to remember why we celebrate and not just that jesus is the reason for this season that's nice and it's it's catchy and everything.
But understanding Jesus is.
Who he is that we?
Celebrate.
Why we celebrate Jesus as the reason for our salvation?
For the season
Christmas is not the beginning of the story and it's surely not the end because we're going to see the end someday.
and the end goes on for eternity as well. isn't that amazing?
it's eternal life.
It's not the beginning or the end because Jesus is both the beginning and the end.
And the end.
And if you haven't received Jesus, then tonight is your night.
it is your night. the bible says that today is the day of salvation.
this is the time.
This is the time.
And, uh,
Really anybody after church who was not received
Jesus, I'm not going to make a big fanfare of it right now.
but ah.
come talk to me.
And or
I know
She'll probably talk to you.
Jetty, maybe.
Yeah, thumbs up.
so go find somebody and say hey i want to receive jesus and if that person doesn't know how to have to help you do that they'll come find somebody who doesn't okay.
All right.
Let's pray.
Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you so, so, so, so, so much.
For humbling yourself,
for for.
Casting off,
Your kingliness
For a time.
Two
Become like one of us.
To wrap yourself in flesh
And live a life here on earth
A sinless life.
1.
Be sufficient
All sufficient for a sacrifice for our sins.
And a life also that would prove and go to
Show us how to live our lives.
God, as we look at your life here on Earth, we see that we so desperately need a savior because we don't measure up.
And we thank you and we praise you for your grace.
We thank you for measuring up for all of us.
Lord, as we go about the season, I just ask that your blessing would be on each one of us, Lord, as we go to our homes,
God, I ask that you would fill our homes with...
Uh, with warmth.
With glad tidings.
With love, with joy,
Most of all with your peace
And God, I just ask that you would forgive
Be very, very, very real to us this Christmas season.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.